# HE2B_PluginSynthDatabase #

## Introduction ##

The main objective of this project assignment was to use the python language to create a data set,
accessible and easy to use containing the different presets of an audio plugin synthesizer. The
synthesizer at the basis of this report is the Lokomotiv by Archetype Instruments and the Digital
Audio Workstation (DAW) within which I tested the data set is Reaper.
Firstly, this report will provide brief background theories on audio plugin synthesizers in
a music context and separately, data sets in general and and within the context of this report
are explained. Secondly, I detail the methodology used to create the data set starting from
experimenting and understanding the parameters of the synthesizer in a DAW to coding a
program in Python to populate the data set and manipulate its data.
Thirdly I analyze the accessibility of the data through a DAW and test experimentally the
quality of sounds generated by the presets stored in and loaded from the data set compared to
those loaded directly from the synthesizer’s preset files. Furthermore, in my conclusion, I explore
why creating a data set like this one is interesting for an individual user such as an audio engineer
or music producer but also for possible future audio applications.

## How it works ##

     Lokomotiv Synthesizer Dataset V1 uses MySQL database server
     to store your vst presets. Six commands are at your disposition to access
     and update the Lokomotiv database table:

     1) <update> <Preset files path>: Higher level function used to enter and 
     update all presets found in <Preset files path> folder on local PC to the 
     Lokomotiv database table.
     e.g. update /Users/jeannshuti/Admin/Uni/HE2B/PBE/Lokomotiv presets/dbtest

     2) <list> : Lists the names of all presets currently stored in the database
     table.
     e.g. list

     3) <load> <Preset Name> : With a music DAW open and the Lokomotiv preset 
     inserted on one of the tracks, this command will load <"Preset Name"> into
     your Lokomotiv instance through Midi CC.
     e.g. load FlamingJuly
     Or   load 1

     4) <help> : lists the available commands

     5) <exit> or <q> : close program
     
     6) <pickle> and <unpickle> <pickle file path and name> : Back up of Database 
        and access

## Dependancies ##

```python
import pickle
import pandas as pd
from datetime import date

import os
from typing import List, Union

import presetReader.DictLP
import mysql.connector
import struct
from prettytable import PrettyTable
import numpy as np
import mido
```

## Project interpreter and IDE ##
Pycharm: Python 3.7 Anaconda environment
